MSC4140: Cancellable delayed events (#4140)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4140-expiring-events-with-keep-alive-endpoint.md

communicating that an event is still valid. The best expiration method is to post
another event that is stores that it is expired.
In some situations the client just looses connection or fails to sent the expired
version of the event.
A generic way is desired in which the event gets marked as expired by the homeserver.

Clients can then perform custom logic based on if the event is in valid or
expired state.

This is particularly interesting in the context of matrixRTC where we want
to ignore expired state events of users who left the call without sending a new
state empty `m.call.member` event.

We would like the homeserver to mark this event as expired in a reasonable
time window after a user disconnected.

## Proposal

Events can contain a `m.will_expire: "running" | "expired" | "ended"` field.
This is an enum marking the event as
expired `m.will_expire: "expired" | "ended"` or still alive `m.will_expire: "running"`.
This field lives outside the ciphertext content (hence it also works for encrypted
events) and is set via the usual `PUT` request if the content contains the additional
`m.will_expire: 10` field (similar how it is done with relations), with the desired

> timeout duration in seconds.

Reviewer: Is this saying that the only time the field may be a numeric value instead of an enum is when the event is the payload of a `PUT` request?

Also, is it ever valid to send a `PUT` request with the field set to an enum value?  I presume it is not.

Author: Enum in terms of: only a defined set of strings are valid.

Reviewer: This should specify whether the `PUT` request for setting the event is allowed to set `m.will_expire` to one of the enum values or not.

From my understanding, the initial request to set the event _must_ provide a numeric `m.will_expire`, and the enum values are used exclusively by the homeserver when it actually puts the event into the room's event graph.

Reviewer: This is no longer relevant now that the concept of expiry types has been dropped.

Request

```json
{
    "m.will_expire": 10,
    "body": "hello"
}
```

> If the homeserver detects a `m.expired` field it will store and distribute the

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be:
```suggestion
If the homeserver detects a `m.will_expire` field it will store and distribute the
```
?

Author: thx

event as hiding the timeout duration:

```json
{
  "content":{
    "m.will_expire": "running",
    "body": "hello",
  },
  "other_fields":"sender, origin_server_ts ..."
}
```

The response to the client will be:

```json
{
  "eventId": "hash_id",
  "expire_refresh_token": "hash_refresh",
}
```

The default response is extended with the `expire_refresh_token` which
can be used to reset the expiration timeout (in this example 10 seconds).
A new unauthenticated endpoint is introduced:
`PUT /_matrix/client/v3/expiration/{refresh_method}`

> where the `refresh_method` is either: `refresh`, `end`

Reviewer: Nitpick to match the formatting style of the spec (which IMO improves readability):
```suggestion
where the `refresh_method` is one of: `[refresh, end]`
```

The body contains the refresh token so the homeserver knows what to refresh.

```json
{
  "expire_refresh_token": "hash_refresh",
}

> ```

Reviewer: Should refresh requests also send the `eventId` of the target event, to prevent collisions between multiple expiring events?  OTOH, if the refresh tokens are UUIDs, collisions would be unlikely.

...oh, and requiring the event ID would also leak it to whoever is doing the refreshing.

Author: Exactly I think it would be easier to just allow: roomid+eventid but as evaluated later on, this would allow guessing (or if you are part of the room; computing) the refresh url -> allowing others to end the call membership.

The information required to call this endpoint is very limited so that almost

> no metadata is leaked when. This allows to share a refresh link to a different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no metadata is leaked. This allows to share a refresh link to a different
```
or was something else meant to be said here?

service (an SFU for instance) that can track the current client connection state,
and pings the HS to refresh and informs the HS about a disconnect.

> The homeserver does the following when receiving an event with `m.expired`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The homeserver does the following when receiving an event with `m.will_expire`
```
Right?

- It generates a token and stores it alongside with the time of retrieval,
the eventId and the expire duration.

> - Starts a counter for the stored expiation token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starts a timer for the stored expiration token.
```

Author: that makes more sense, yes.

  - If a `PUT /_matrix/client/v3/expiration/refresh` is received, the

>   timer is restarted with the stored expire duration.

Reviewer: Should refresh requests allow for changing the expire duration (specified in the request body, for instance)?

Author: I think it shouldn't. The reason is:
The refresh endpoint should be shareable with other parties without concerns.
Those parties (the SFU) should not be able to change the refresh time the client/user decides to configure.

In a real world scenario the client will check if the SFU supports the `will_expire` `refresh` and if that is the case it will use a long expiration duration (like 1hour). this reduces the load and since an SFU is exprected to not get disconnected from the network a liberal value is acceptable. The SFU will send the `/end` request once the user disconnects.

The SFU however should not be able to change the expiration to 2 years for instance.

Reviewer: The other parties being disallowed from changing the timeout is a great point, thanks.

And besides, the original sender of the expiring event could always just send a brand new state event with a different timeout to replace the original state event & its timeout.

  - If a `PUT /_matrix/client/v3/expiration/end` is received, the
  event _gets ended_.
  - If the timer times out, the event _gets expired_.
  - If the event is a state event only the latest/current state is considered. If

>   the homeserver receives a new state event without `m.expires` but with the same

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
  the homeserver receives a new state event without `m.will_expire` but with the same
```

Author: Oh again...
